PROCEDURE: CT-guided biopsy of right groin lymph node under intravenous conscious sedation.

INDICATION: 57-year-old female with history of a Merkel cell carcinoma of the left nasal alar groove, with PET-CT performed on June 10, 2009 demonstrating FDG avid lymph nodes in the right upper medial thigh, suspicious for metastatic involvement. Percutaneous biopsy requested.

SEDATION: Versed 2 mg, Fentanyl 100 mcg. The intravenous conscious sedation was monitored by the radiology nursing staff.

COMPLICATIONS: None.

TECHNIQUE:

After the risks, benefits, and alternatives of the procedure were discussed with the patient and written informed consent obtained, the patient was transferred to the CT suite and placed in supine position on the CT table. Initial localizing noncontrast CT images through the area of interest were obtained with a radiopaque grid in place. A safe skin entry site was chosen. IVCS was then initiated.

The right groin and upper thigh was prepped and draped using standard sterile technique. Following local anesthesia with 2% lidocaine, and using intermittent CT fluoroscopy guidance, a 17-gauge x 10 cm introducer needle was advanced from the skin entry site into the lymph node. After confirming adequate needle position with imaging, 2 FNA samples were obtained using 22-gauge x 15 cm Chiba needles and 2 core biopsy samples were obtained using an 18-gauge x 15 cm Temno device. A cytotechnologist was present to assess for adequacy of the samples. After all needles were removed, a repeat postprocedure noncontrast CT scan through the area of interest was obtained. A sterile dressing was applied.

The patient tolerated the procedure well with no immediate complications and was transferred to the recovery room in stable condition.

Dr. Stuart Silverman, the teaching physician, was present for the entire procedure.

FINDINGS:

1. Initial preprocedure localizing noncontrast CT images through the area of interest once again demonstrate 2 enlarged lymph nodes in the medial aspect of the upper right thigh, corresponding to FDG avid lymph nodes seen on recent PET-CT.
2. Postprocedure noncontrast images through the of interest demonstrate no signs of hematoma or other complications.

IMPRESSION: 

Percutaneous CT-guided biopsy of right upper thigh lymph node with no immediate complications as described above. Samples were sent for cytology and surgical pathology.
